¡Elezione del Fuoco 10-27-16

Congratulations, your vote is worthless.

The dynamic of the upcoming US general election has revealed, with incredible clarity to those who dare look, the true state of how far down the road to a totalitarian corporate oligarchy we have fallen. We want to believe that our vote is the voice of our ideals and values in a democracy and by casting said vote we are contributing to the direction of this country. I will argue that it is in fact quite the opposite. By voting in this election you are contributing to the destruction of what is left of a once free nation. Voting only serves to lend legitimacy and consent to a system that no longer, and arguably never has, served the best interest of the population.

The American psyche is historically one that is instantly and vehemently opposed to self criticism on a level that has not been seen since ancient Rome. An inability to look inward and come to terms with the state of the country currently is not a trait to be championed, it is a mindset that must be challenged at every turn. The unwillingness or inability to learn from civilizations before us has manifested itself into a view of ourselves that is skewed and dangerous. The American voter for the most part holds a few things to be de facto truths thanks to a propaganda machine that would have made Goebbels proud.

-the idea we are the greatest nation without question on the earth today.

-America is a champion for good and democracy and just wants to spread freedom to those who do not have it.

-America is somehow immune to the lessons of history and the rules of basic economics because no matter what, at the base of everything one self defeating truth held dear is that America can only prevail and succeed for no reason other than it is America.

The ability to get honest with ourselves can only come from an understanding of the black and white of how this country actually functions. The United States is a capitalist society and that is held as a source of pride and staunch opposition is thrown up at any ideas or criticisms of the system. A system that is touted as a way to bring to the top the best and brightest and allow everyone to share in an equal opportunity to excel and succeed. Most of those defending capitalism do not actually know what it is or how it operates. Understanding capitalism and its manifestations are key to understanding how we ended up where we are.

Scottish Born economist and philosopher Adam Smith quite literally wrote the book on capitalism in 1776 with "The Wealth of Nations" in it he lays out its purpose, functions, and operation.  It is the idea that there is no such thing as to much. The goal of capitalism is to profit as much as possible no matter who is negatively effected, to increase your wealth at such a rate that ultimately you increase your own personal power along with it. Adam Smith sums it up in his book when referring to these people as the "masters of mankind" and how they are following the "vile maxim, all for ourselves and nothing for other people" Growth for the sake of growth is how a cancer cell operates. It is the cycle of produce and consume as much as possible for no other reason than to maximize profits. It does not produce for benefit, only profit. That is why even today October 27th 2016 sixty thousand children across the world starved to death for no reason other than it was not profitable to feed them. With wealth so comes power and influence. With power so comes wealth and so on. The capitalist system starts to generate its own cycle where more and more wealth gets centralized in fewer and fewer hands. It is only the natural reaction that with the power generated by the wealth you will see the influence that comes with it start to exert itself more and more on its surroundings. Capitalism is a system that requires infinite growth on a planet with finite resources so eventually these two factors will come to a head and a tipping point will be reached. No greater example of this can be seen than in that of the US economy and current presidential election.

America is no longer a nation of production. It has become far more profitable to outsource production to developing nations. The United States' main business is now ,and has been for a while, financial institutions. Banking, investing, and insurance have overtaken production in a big way. Before the most recent crash in 2007 financial institutions held over 40% of all corporate profits in this country. A great example given by the MIT linguistics professor Noam Chomsky is that of General Electric. It is now more profitable for GE to move money around and make exponentially more profits in investing than they could ever hope to with production. In turn maximizing profits while contributing nothing of value which leads to more power and influence. This influence is then exerted over the state to ensure favorable rules and regulation toward GE to then allow them to make even more profits which lead to, you guessed it more power. So the cycle goes on and on consuming everything in its path.

Financial institutions gamble for profit and when they loose since they already wield so much power over the system they have the state bail them out with taxpayer dollars that originate with labor. You can literally trace back to the base of it all a warehouse workers labor paying for Wall Streets high risk gambles. The same people wrecking the economy are the same people writing economic policy in this country. The problem is not that the system is broken. The problem is that its working exactly how its supposed to.  Citizens United has given corporations rights as people. All remaining barriers for corporate influence on elections have been removed. Our unwillingness for whatever reasons to recognize and admit that corporate control through the laws of capitalism have asserted themselves over our government are detrimental to any real semblance of freedom. They are literally looting the country out from under neath the people while through media influence got you waving a flag the entire time.

Whether it be denial, ignorance, or apathy we have not been able to admit to ourselves that we are getting worked over. This election cycle is putting right in front of you the true state of affairs, and yet the desire to get behind the elephant or the donkey and cheer on your team as if its not a game of the Cleveland Browns vs the Cleveland Browns is mind boggling.

Your hatred for Donald Trump and what he stands for does not mean you turn a blind eye to who Hillary is. She sponsored the overthrow of a democratically elected government in Honduras and replaced it with a military dictatorship sympathetic to US interests. This is not opinion she admitted her role. But that's ok at least she is not Trump. She deleted her emails and the FBI in their press conference literally said if this was a normal person she would be indicted. Her name is not Donald Trump though so its fine. Wikileaks has been steady releasing batch after batch of email exchanges that implicates her, her campaign, and even the white house in election fraud among other things. She never hosted the apprentice so its cool. Her transcripts were released of her Goldman Sachs speeches where she says "you need to have a public policy and a private one." She is caught red handed telling the people who bankroll her that she will push through their interests and sell it to the public. Yet here you are still tweeting your #imwithher hashtags. We are resembling the abused wife defending her husband to her friends with two black eyes and a fat lip.

Yet the other half of you in recognizing how horrible Hillary is defend to the death Donald Trump. The answer to the capitalist oligarchical problem we are in is not to place an ultra capitalist in every sense of the word at the head of the ship. The greatest hypocrisy of it all comes from the Trump camp. Claiming to be pro life while at the same time cheering at the top of your lungs when he utters such eloquent foreign policy statements as "i'd bomb the shit out of em." Holding America in your hearts as a beacon of freedom and good in this world while simultaneously turning your nose up at the thought of taking in refugees fleeing a war torn country in which the US has had a heavy hand in turning into dust. It seems a generation whose parents and grandparents fought so hard against fascism in the 40s sure do have a hard time recognizing what in fact fascism actually is. When it waves a flag with a swastika on it you will be the first to stand up and fight it yet when it waves the stars and stripes you put on a red hat with white letters and call everyone else a socialist. Just because you recognize what a threat Hillary is to world peace does not mean you have to get in line behind a misogynist, transphobic, xenophobic, narcissistic, power hungry, con-man.

They rally the propaganda trumpet to get you in line. Yea candidate X is not the best but you don't want candidate Y to win do you? You are herded into the main line of public discourse and societal norms to believe you have one of two real choices. The choices that were funded to the positions of power by the arm of the immensely wealthy and powerful oligarchy that wield influence over this country. Lucy Parsons once said " never be deceived that the rich will permit you to vote away their wealth" Candidates are marketed to you as if they are selling you a product. The idea of marketing is to convince you to get something you don't actually need. They appeal on an emotional level. Emotionally you hold the truths outlined earlier about America. Emotionally that's what you want for the country. Emotionally "make america great again" is what you want, its what you "need", its how you see this country in your heart and its the choice that emotionally appeals to you. The same way they marketed Obama's Hope and Change while really selling you nothing more than an intangible idea. You eat it up it feels good but at the end of the day nothing changes and their profits and influence grow ever greater. You may get a taste of real opportunities for real change during the course of it all as was apparent in Bernie Sanders campaign.

Recognizing Bernie's meteoric rise and ultimate betrayal at the hands of the democratic party is another surreal part of this election. No real social change was ever won in a voting booth and never has that been more apparent than with Bernie Sanders' campaign. The level of grassroots mobilization and public support was astounding. That level of support in a movement had the real potential to bring about a real change in American politics had they not staked its success in a voting booth. At the end of the day the DNC got caught sabotaging the primary to push Hillary through. Bernie in turn had to cave and support Hillary or run the risk of committing political suicide not because the people stopped supporting him but the corporate influence over the system is so strong that it would have been the end for him.

They say history repeats itself twice the first time as a tragedy and the second time as a comedy because its funny no one saw it coming around again. The scary part of this election as a student of history is recognizing the geopolitical chess board that is set up and the potential for a catastrophe the likes of which have never been seen. It manifests itself economically and militarily. It must be understood that nothing can be more profitable for a capitalist than WAR. Producing things at full speed only to have them be destroyed so as to produce again is the ideal capitalist business model. Capitalism cares for nothing and no one but profit. So the economic interests in this country that control the political arena through money which translates to influence have a business interest to see large scale war. You can see this in looking at the two presidential candidates. Syria being the most likely flashpoint.

The situation in Syria has the potential to drag the world into the flames with it. Russia propping up Assad. America supporting the moderate rebels who are fighting Assad and each other. ISIS which through email leaks is seeming to be getting arms through Saudi Arabia(our biggest middle eastern ally). ISIS vs the Kurds. Turkey(a US NATO ally) involving themselves militarily against the Kurds. It is a powder keg which can only be made worse with strained US-Russian relations. Hillary's plan to create a no fly zone in Syria could very easily create a situation which  could end with the US and Russia at war. Americans do not look to seriously into this prospect because well we are America and we win everything we touch but the tragedy of not recognizing what this would mean could be the downfall of us all.

One needs to look no further than Russia's diplomatic relations. Russia and China are economic and on some level military partners. North Korea is in China's pocket. Russia and Iran have very close ties as well. America could not successfully subdue Afghanistan militarily the prospect of taking on Russia, China, Iran, and North Korea is militarily impossible. That does not even take into account economically the battles that will take place. America's military is propped up by spending and money(spending more than the next 14 countries combined). China in holding more US dollars than any other nation and  would need to do nothing more than dump the dollar and call in US loans to devalue the dollar to the extent of it being worthless. America will not prevail just because it is America and that's your country and your country is the winner all the time. That is historically arrogant and frankly stupid.

So by casting your vote no matter who it is for is not a vote for that person. It is a vote for the system. It is your implication in what happens to this country. It is giving your consent whether it be out of ignorance, fear, or indifference to a system designed and utilized to benefit the few and pacify the many. Unless we unify and organize as a free people and truly take steps to free ourselves from a level of exploitation never before seen we are destined wave the flag as we descend into the flames. All the while yelling at the other team about how bad their person did, or would have done. We are played against each other along the lines of race, religion, and gender while not realizing the true enemy. The bourgeoisie, it is the capitalist class selling us our own destruction and we are almost full. There will come a day when the poor have nothing left to eat but the rich. A tipping point of history is upon us and the window is shrinking, its time to grow up as a species or perish together into the dark as nothing more than a twinkle in the universal scheme of things. But then again as I have said before what do I know, I work in a warehouse.

So no I am not voting and no my vote doesn't matter.....and neither does yours. Grow up. Wake up. Wise up. Rise up. We are in this together comrades its time to act like it and stop letting people who do not care about us lead us to our own destruction.

-Ryan

The World After Wealth. Trump section. By Ryan Homanics

6.1 Repetition and the Illusion of Truth. How Donald Trump was able to trick his supporters and disengage their ability to use critical thinking.

Trump is (in)famous for his extremely repetitive language. He hammers simple phrases and nicknames over and over: “Make America Great Again,” “Build the Wall,” “Crooked Hillary,” “Fake News,” etc. This is not accidental or merely a lack of vocabulary; it’s a tried-and-true propaganda technique. Psychologists know the “illusory truth effect” – the more you hear a statement, the more likely you are to believe it’s true, regardless of evidence. By endlessly repeating slogans and accusations, Trump effectively brainwashes some listeners into accepting them as common sense. For example, he repeated “rigged election” and “fraud” so relentlessly regarding the 2020 vote that a significant portion of Republican voters still believe the election was stolen (despite all court cases and audits finding otherwise). Repetition strengthens association: call the media “fake news” thousands of times and supporters reflexively distrust any critical press.

Linguists note Trump’s repetitive style is more akin to advertising or sales patter than normal political oration. As one analysis put it, *“Trump doesn’t repeat phrases because he’s lost for words; for the most part, he’s providing emphasis and strengthening association.” Each time he repeats an epithet like “radical Islamic terrorism” or “witch hunt,” he is reinforcing a mental link in his audience’s minds. George Lakoff, a cognitive linguist, observed that Trump intuitively uses sales gimmicks such as starting sentences with “Believe me...” and asserting “many people are saying...”, which prime listeners to trust him without evidence. By claiming “many people are saying [X unfounded claim],” he gives the illusion of consensus, which psychologically nudges folks to accept.

Another aspect is chanting at rallies: leading crowds to chant “Lock Her Up!” or “Build The Wall!” is a crude form of call-and-response reinforcement. It binds the group together (tribal ritual) and further cements those ideas. This repetition in group settings can create an almost cult-like environment: neuroscientists note rhythmic chanting can induce a light trance and reduce critical thinking. In such moments, the crowd is united in a simple purpose or animus (e.g., punishing Hillary Clinton) and facts become irrelevant.

6.2 Vagueness, Empty Signifiers, and Projection

While Trump repeats certain phrases, much of his content is astonishingly vague or self-contradictory. He often speaks in sentence fragments, leaving blanks that listeners fill in themselves. For instance, the slogan “Make America Great Again” begs the question: when was America great, and for whom, and how to make it great? Trump never specified clearly, which is precisely why it worked – it allowed each supporter to project their own idea of greatness onto it. Sociologist Zeynep Tufekci called Trump a “Rorschach candidate.” By being light on policy details and heavy on emotive buzzwords, he let people assume he agreed with them. A Washington Post piece noted many supporters “read between Trump’s lines” to believe he held positions he in fact had not concretely laid out.

Trump’s off-the-cuff speaking style is full of superlatives (“tremendous,” “the worst ever,” “amazing”), generalities (“everybody knows...”), and placeholders like “we’ll see what happens.” This strategic ambiguity means he is rarely pinned down – e.g., he’d say “we’re going to have health care that is fabulous, everybody’s gonna be taken care of” with no plan attached. To a critical ear it’s nonsense; to a hopeful supporter, it’s a promise that whatever they want in healthcare, he will deliver. In 2016, many voters projected contradictory desires onto him (some thought he secretly had progressive views, others ultra-conservative). This is a common demagogue tactic: ideological shapeshifting. A communications scholar described it as *“being ideologically vacant so supporters can fill in the gaps with what they wish”

Even when he does mention policy, he keeps it broad: “very, very simple to close the border”, “concepts of a plan” on healthcare. Note that phrase – “concepts of a plan” – essentially meaning he has no concrete plan. But for supporters, the lack of specifics isn’t a bug, it’s a feature: it allows them to not sweat complexities. As one voter told the Post, “I don’t need to know the details. I trust that he’ll surround himself with the best people to get it done”. This exemplifies intellectual dependency: supporters outsource their critical thought to the leader. Trump fosters this by projecting confidence (the famous “Believe me, it’ll be done, so easy” lines).

Furthermore, Trump’s relentless lying (over 30,000 false or misleading claims as tallied in his presidency by fact-checkers) could paradoxically reinforce dependency. When confronted with obvious falsehoods, his base largely rationalized them or shrugged. Why? Because over time, Trump inculcated a narrative that he alone is the source of truth (recall his quote “Just remember, what you are seeing and reading is not what’s happening”, urging people to only believe him). In effect, he attempted – with worrying success – to replace objective reality with tribal truth. As Orwell wrote in 1984, the final stage of controlling a populace is making them reject the evidence of their eyes and ears in favor of the Party’s word. Trump’s constant claims that any media that contradicts him is “fake vox.com】 and that only he tells it like it is, created an information silo. Many supporters end up consuming only Trump-friendly media (e.g., talk radio, Fox News, One America News) and dismiss everything else. This is a form of epistemic closure – they effectively adopt Trump as the arbiter of reality. That’s intellectual dependence of a high order.

6.3 Us vs. Them Tribal Loyalty

Perhaps the most potent element of Trump’s strategy is tribalism. He frames all issues as a battle between a virtuous “us” and a malevolent “them.” The “us” is his base (often white working-class Christians feeling culturally threatened; though he also appealed to broader Republican partisanship). The “them” is a rotating cast: immigrants, Muslims, Chinese, the “elite” (journalists, academics, Hollywood, “Deep State” bureaucrats). By constantly demonizing out-groups, he forges a tight in-group identity among supporters. “They hate you, they hate me, they hate our values,” he’d say in various forms. This triggers what social psychologists call “collective narcissism” – the belief that one’s group is under attack and must be defended at all costs, fostering aggressive loyalty. At Trump rallies, this is palpable: an attacker of Trump becomes an attacker of the audience’s identity.

Trump uses derogatory nicknames for opponents (“Crooked Hillary,” “Sleepy Joe,” “Little Marco,” “the Squad”) to personalize the enemy and stoke ridicule. This both entertains his crowd (creating a sense of shared superiority laughing at opponents) and villainizes the target (delegitimizing them as serious alternatives). Research shows that such ad-hominem attacks, repeated enough, can implant lasting negative impressions regardless of facts (Clinton was cleared of criminal wrongdoing in her email issue, yet “Lock Her Up!” persist – a large chunk of the public remained convinced of her corruption solely due to the slogan and repetition).

By fostering an atmosphere where “we are patriots, real Americans, and they are traitors/ socialists/terrorists”, Trump erodes the middle ground. Supporters come to see politics not as competing policy ideas but as existential warfare between good and evil – a hallmark of authoritarian movements. Thus, any critique of Trump can be dismissed as an attack from “enemies” rather than considered on merits. This was evident when Trump said “I could stand in the middle of Fifth Avenue and shoot somebody and I wouldn’t lose voters.” It was hyperbole, but it underscores that he cultivated unconditional loyalty. Indeed, when he did truly egregious things (like denigrate war hero John McCain or brag on tape about sexual assault “grab ’em by the p---y”), his core base stuck with him, often dismissing the issues as media-concocted or trivial compared to the cosmic battle against “liberal elites” and immigrants, etc.

An arsenal of techniques.

Repetition of false but group-flattering claims – e.g., “The election was stolen by THEM (Democrats, urban fraud) from YOU.” This not only mobilizes anger (they wronged us) but also provides an excuse for failure. If Trump lost, it wasn’t that the majority rejected him, it’s that the evil “other” cheated. This keeps his tribe’s self-image intact and bonds them further in grievance. Repeated often enough, it becomes a foundational myth of the group (polls show ~65% of Republicans believe the 2020 election was stolen – a testament to repeated lies overriding facts).

Emotional Resonance Over Rationality: Trump’s rhetorical strategy is almost entirely emotional. As Vox noted, *“People understand Trump on an emotional level”. He validates his supporters’ fears (of economic change, demographic change, national decline) and then channels their anger toward scapegoats (immigrants, globalists, “corrupt” officials). By presenting himself as the courageous champion against those threats, he fosters “dependency” – the group feels it needs Trump to survive the onslaught of "enemies." A Calvin College historian, Kristin Du Mez, observed that Trump taps into feelings of fear and insecurity but then *“enables his audience to express that fear through anger. And anger gives the illusion of empowerment.” Indeed, rally-goers often described feeling “energized” and “powerful” chanting with Trump – a quasi-therapeutic or revival-tent sensation that bonds them to the leader providing it.

Over time, this reliance on Trump for emotional fulfillment and explanation of the world becomes a sort of cult loyalty. Many supporters echo his phrases verbatim, as though they were mantras, and reflexively defend him, even to the point of rationalizing anti-democratic actions (like the January 6th Capitol attack). It mirrors cult dynamics where the leader’s word is truth and outside criticism is proof of persecution.

compartmentalized information.

Social media and partisan news have amplified Trump’s reach and also insulated his base from opposing views. Trump's team flooded Facebook with simplistic memes and false claims; and right-wing media often repeated or at least did not strongly debunk his falsehoods, letting them fester. The result is a large segment of Americans living in an alternate information reality where Trump is a savior and his opponents are near satanic. This is tribal epistemology – truth is what the tribe’s leader says. When confronted with objective refutation (say, court verdicts rejecting election fraud claims), the tribe dismisses it as trickery by “the deep state” or bias, because Trump told them to believe that. As one Trump supporter told researchers, “If Trump says it, it’s true. He’s never let us down.” That’s pure intellectual submission.

Why he gets so many to fall for intellectual trash.

Trump’s rise illustrates how demagogic rhetoric can hijack democratic discourse by exploiting cognitive biases (repetition effect, in-group favoritism) and emotions. It shows the fragility of truth when confronted with a firehose of lies delivered with conviction. It also highlights a worrying trend: large numbers of people may prefer the comfort of a simple narrative and strong leader over the complexities of reality and democracy. The Trump phenomenon is not unique in history – parallels exist in cults of personality from Huey Long to authoritarian figures abroad – but his success in the U.S. context, aided by modern media, marks a dramatic example in our era.

To guard against such manipulation, understanding these techniques is a first step. When we recognize repetition-as-brainwashing, vagueness-as-projection, and tribal division as deliberate tactics, we can inoculate ourselves to some degree. But the deeper solution lies in addressing the grievances demagogues exploit (economic inequality, cultural anxiety – as earlier sections in this paper attempt in a constructive way) and in fostering an electorate educated in critical thinking (the very goal of our envisioned education system). Trump’s strategy thrived on the failings of the current system – filling voids of trust and belonging with conspiracy and resentment. A more just society might deprive future Trumps of the fuel they need. Still, the caution remains: the power of repetitive propaganda and tribal loyalty is immense, and even the most advanced society must stay vigilant against those who would abuse democratic freedoms to gain autocratic power.