Every day is a more miserable, stressful, draining, further complicating, taxing, version of the one before it.  I have settled in to write this chapter 4 different times now and just like everything else lately, whatever could go wrong, did go wrong.  However in a fucked up very fitting way its going to allow me to portray what I originally set out to for this chapter in a way that will be immensely more powerfully.  I started typing this on my beautiful late 1920s portable Underwood Deluxe typewriter that resembles something Hemingway would have typed his masterpieces on. Yet just like the rest of my life as the next 3 days went on shit got worse and more complicated.

So I am just going to combine what I have written on the typewriter, by hand, and on the computer from the prior 4 days into a depiction of taking you through  a day in the life . So without further adue, I present to you “ if it aint one thing it’s a motha fuckin notha”.

If it aint one thing it’s a motha fuckin notha as the great dolph would say. Day in and day out the occupation of professional drug addiction is draining on every level in such a way that it is not even possible to describe unless you have been there, yet ill give it my best try.

Well actually this is now day 5 where im going to give this a try. Im currently sitting in the back alley I have copped at so many times before with my laptop in my lap, a car full of a bunch of my old book, hold on hes pulling up……..ah that was nice af. Ok Im gunna pick back up from the parking lot waiting on the offer I get from half price books for all these overflowing books in my attic.

I have finally finished wheeling in 3 carts worth of my books for their appraisal and the determinining factor in how my next 24 hour is going to go in quite a few ways. I am sitting in the store with my laptop open, 0 miles to empty in my gas tank, 82 cents in my bank account, 1 crumpled dollar bill in my center console, and about 5 hits of crack left if im lucky. I am way to far from home to make it there with 1.82 in gas. My ol lady sent me 30 dollars before I came here for gas and cigarettes which I swapped cigs for crack. So spinning her some kind of scenario where I need more money from her to get home on top of not being able to give her the 30 she loaned me right back would be a real issue.

This book appraisal could be allllll tf over the map when it comes to what they are going to offer me. I did however as a dire emergency bring along my prized literary possession, a first edition “For Whom the Bell Tolls” by Hemingway. That book mean so so much to me and has changed the course of my life when I read it for the first time locked up in Trumbull County Jail. Acquiring a first edition before covid hit was one of my proudest and  happiest moments in relation to how I felt I was doing in life a the time. I brought it incase they want to give me back absolutely nothing  for everything else and I need to atleast get home I know I got atleast gas money comin back. I also have a 15 book childrens collection called “The Complete Collection of Knowledge” or something along those lines that I got as a gift for my niece when she turns like 3 or 4ish for her lil library. The fact I have them in there is quite depressing for me.  There is so much riding on this as I sit here typing listening for my name to be called over the speaker. While I wait I might as well continue with describing the crack fumigated sequel to the movie groundhog day. Right after I run out to the car and take a lung pump from the glass shotgun real quick.

A day in this glorious life.

I open my eyes and for that fleeting moment when you exist between the dream world and the bitter physical hell of the “real” one you float in that sweet sweet in between.

Your conscious self and your ego have not come online yet and your subconscious dreamworld neural highways have still  to see the last chemical cars take their exits. But with each passing second your sobering reality comes in waves. You feel the first pain receptors pulse as a result of not enough nutrition or hydration in your life. It reflects this fact in the tightness of your calves or the tug of war going on between muscles in the lower back and their attatchment to your spine. They cry for hyrdration as a way to give lubrication and a flowing liquidlike tension to your muscles instead of its current dried up rubbery dried cracking tearing grip they currently have. Another second passes your mind has its first conscious directed thought and its always ALWAYS the same. “What chemicals do I have left from the night before readily available to me so I can facilitate their journey to my brain?”. More specifically for me lately is, “ did I save atleast one single hit?”

OH SHIT THEY JUST CALLED MY NAME FOR MY BOOK OFFER!

HERE WE FUCKIN GO! CROSS YOUR FINGERS FOR ME!

Hi me again. So that was 3 in the afternoon. Its now 7:15 am and I am finally laying In my sheet deficient bed with Chaz nuzzled in the bend of my left knee.  I am sure you can gather vaguely how ny offer went. It went well enough to keep me bangin on all cylinders until now atleast but it pierced me with a splinter that  hit straight in the heart. I went to get my offer as my mountains of books surrounded the worker and his computer. He told me, “ I can offer you 128 for everything.”   Getting anything triple digits when your car in the parking lot says 0 miles to empty and you are sucking your nicotine out of a fruity lil vape instead of your beloved camel 99 reds is a welcome appraisal but the split it was killed me.  When I asked how much was the Hemingway? I was honestly going to just pull it if they were offering some shitty 20 or 30 bucks for it but that’s not how it went. He said that would be 75 for my prized book. He went on with some “blab la it very well could be a first edition and we are a middleman bla bla”. My response was swiftly “It absolutely is a first edition because it has the Scribners A on the title page that they onky put on first editons and it’s a Hemingway so you know you wont have an issue selling it. Also you know you wont be listing it for under 400 dollars atleast.”  That retort coming from a guy with messy crack hair and battle for Fallujah post game show appearance seemed to make him brain short circuit and he was only able to reply , “ah yes you know your books, well umm we can see if my manager will go up a lil higher maybe?”.  Long story short  I got her to go upto 90 on it  bur that 1 book made up the majority of the offer so I couldn’t pull it even though I wanted to do nothing more than that. Now after gas, cigs, repay my gal, and get a Gram and a 20 later from my other dude who bought some gabs off me.

Now its 815 in the morning. I have about 3 hits left, 24 miles to empty in my tank, 7 cigarettes, and 21 dollars remaining. I spent the last 7 hours editing and making a prono video for this book that, if the prior uploads are any indiation, nobody will be hooked enough to watch for more than a few seconds. So here I sit, I have now moved to my couch beause I am abut to go upstairs and take another hit to try and keep the sandstorm of depression out of my boarded up shack for just.a little longer. I need to get started on describing how a day in the life goes lol.

ANYWAYS back to the cracking open of your eyelids:

The first touch with reality is

The  neurological pathways in the brain of someone aggressively getting high and in someone who compulsively will go to any lengths to vaccum up currency by any means preset in the same ways. However there is a very big difference in the two types of people. One looked at by society as the scum of the earth and the other held on a pedastool as the epitome of success and as something to aspire to.  The difference though lies in not the brains but the hearts.  The heart of a man who left home at the age of 12 looks one way. Inspite of the fact  when the one who more than anyone was supposed to represent safety and security in a developing brain instead pointed a gun at it and said get out of her sight or she was going to spray that  terrified gray matter all over the wall. Homeless and using drugs since then has done ireeperable damage to that brain  yet the heart pumping blood into that same brain can find itself filling the pipes of 4 or 5 other fellow addicts with the last of their prescious supply because he would rather be the reason for bringing smiles to their faces than have a couple extra himself is the kind of heart you will never find in  billionaire.