This Mother’s Day, I’ve been reading back over the words my mother wrote about what my addiction was like for her: the trauma, the helplessness, the heartbreak, the horror of watching someone she made from herself disappear in front of her.

Every line burns into me like a cattle brand.

Not only because I know I was the reason she had to live through that pain back then, but because I have to sit with the truth that after those words were written, after I knew what it had done to her, I went and did it to her again.

Mothers of people who have lived through addiction know a reality that cannot be explained from the outside. It is a private kind of terror. A grief that keeps breathing. A love that gets dragged through hell and still somehow keeps reaching for the person underneath the wreckage.

The mothers who have endured that — who have suffered at the hands of the very people they brought into this world — carry a perspective only they can truly speak from.

So this Mother’s Day, I’m sharing the chapter “Family” from my 2018 book, Dopesick: The American Addiction to Heroin and Profit.

For my mother.
For every mother who has had to love someone through addiction.
And for everyone who needs to understand what that love costs.

Family

The topic that is never touched on enough is how addiction affects the family. Over the course of writing this book, my mother would repeatedly remind me to “make sure you talk about what it was like for us.”

I spent many a night sitting up wondering just how I could tackle that topic. I know I caused tremendous damage and harm to the ones I love. I just don’t know how it FELT for them. I wanted families of addicted loved ones who read this book to gain something out of it, but I fear I cannot speak to them on the level they deserve. Families go through so much, put through the fire time and time again just hoping, in spite of the damage caused, that their loved one will make it.

So, I had the idea and presented it to my mother. I wanted her to explain, in her own words, what it was like on her side of the line. She is a brilliant, strong, compassionate, brave woman who possesses the capabilities to hit the point right where it is needed. I needed her voice to be the one that could speak on an emotional level to the families. It is hard for me to read her words knowing I am the source of her pain; but I am thankful to be alive and to have the opportunity to show her that it was her strength that got me through times where I didn’t have any myself. She was there for me, and any addict that reads her words will be able to relate a little better to what we have put our loved ones through. You have heard enough from me for now. I will let my mother take over this chapter. Every sentence, for the remainder of the chapter, is hers.

A Mother’s Living Hell

My husband and I were born and raised in a small town in southwest PA. In 1988, I married my high school sweetheart after 9 years of dating. We eventually moved to another state so that he could finish his college degree, receiving his PhD in alcohol research from NC State in Raleigh, North Carolina.

I became a maternity nurse, following a love that I always had for children. When my husband and I started to have a family of our own, it was a dream come true. On September 5, 1989, I was finally to become a mother. The best mother I could ever be…

Although I was very, very sick with hyperemesis gravidium and hospitalized several times during the first few months of my pregnancy, Ryan was born a healthy, full-term baby, weighing in at 8 lb. 2 oz. For the first 3 months of life, Ryan did experience unpleasant “colic” episodes that every parent dreads, but he soon outgrew that initial stage of fussiness, and we were blessed with the happiest, sweetest baby in the world. I recall the local department store photographer mentioning that he had never seen a baby as young as Ryan smiling the entire session with frequent giggles, while getting his picture taken at 3 months of age.

Ryan was a very good sleeper at night but stopped taking his daytime naps at the age of 18 months. I continued to put him in his crib during his so called “nap time”. He would never cry or sleep, but instead, he would talk and talk and talk while playing with his toys the entire time. Since birth, Ryan was always very interested and attentive to his surroundings. You could see in his beautiful blue eyes, the gears in his mind going around and around and around. I chalked this up to having a child who thrived on adventure, always wanting to learn and doing everything that the world had to offer him. He loved life and people. He was a happy boy.

He moved into his big boy bed and potty-trained right on time. He loved it when it was time to read his nightly bedtime stories, which was a special time with daddy. I remember thinking how fun and happy it was, raising this perfect little child, and how I could easily have 100 more children, just like Ryan. He made parenting easy…

He developed a love for sports at a very young age and took a liking to ice hockey and was skating at the age of 2. I am sure the Pittsburgh Penguins winning the Stanley Cup right around this time made it easy for him to choose this sport. He followed his passion, eventually working his way up, playing for the Pittsburgh Junior Penguins, a highly competitive travel hockey program.

We moved back to our hometown when my husband accepted a position at the University of Pittsburgh to continue his research on alcohol. Ryan was 3.5 years old. We were surrounded by loving parents, grandparents, aunts and uncles and welcomed a beautiful daughter, who we named Shelby. My husband and I felt very happy to be able to return to our beloved hometown, which was a safe place for us growing up and we thought it would be the perfect town to raise our family.

My father and Ryan had a special bond. He needed to see Ryan just about every day. Fortunately, at the time, we rented a house that was just 2 blocks away from my parents’ house. My father was in the Army during World War II, and he never talked much about his experiences in the war when I was growing up; but for some reason, he had a connection with my son and loved to talk about it. Ryan’s interest with history started with my father, at the age of 4.

I recall sitting in a restaurant booth with my son one day after a trip to pappy and nana’s house when he was about 5 years old. He proceeded to tell me about a specific war plane with attached bombs that was used in World War II. He told me those planes were called “B-17 Flying Fortress”. Although impressed that he could remember details of that war at such a young age, I was more concerned that he chewed his food before he continued this conversation with me.

A woman sitting behind us in the next booth turned around and apologized for interrupting our dinner but had to say how impressed she was to hear such a young child that knowledgeable about World War II. She proceeded to tell us that her father was one of those pilots of that exact plane that Ryan was talking about. I told my father about that encounter, and he smiled from ear to ear. Proud pappy he was.

My son was able to spend 2 more precious years with his beloved grampap, before he passed away from cancer at the age of 77. This was a devastating loss to us all, especially Ryan and Shelby.

But Ryan’s love for history never stopped, and he probably read every history book on the market before he graduated from high school. We knew history would become his major in college.

We bought our first “old” farmhouse with 5 acres of land shortly after the birth of our daughter Shelby, when Ryan was 4. It was something my husband and I always wanted. We had the best neighbors anyone could ask for. They also had children who were the same ages as ours and loved to play outside all summer long, just like we did growing up. Life was good, and we couldn’t be happier.

We had our last child when Ryan was 7. Jacob - another beautiful boy. They were completely opposite personalities. Ryan was very socially outgoing, always happy, funny and loved sports. Jacob was also very sweet, but very shy and introverted, preferring indoor video games over sports. He did not want to participate in any clubs that were offered at his school. Everyone that knew us would say that Ryan took after his mom, and Jacob took after his dad.

Organized sports were popular when my children were growing up. Something that I was not familiar with as a child. So, like every other parent in our hometown, our children played their share of sports and participated in many activities: Girl Scouts, Boy Scouts, karate, 4-H club, soccer, baseball, basketball, football and hockey.

Life was moving along and there were no major worries, but as a nurse and mother, I did everything I thought as a parent and as a professional to protect my children from every possible danger. Regular immunizations from deadly childhood illnesses.  Helmets when they rode their bicycles. Seat belts when they outgrew their car seats. I was always conscious of my children’s whereabouts, worried about the potential of someone stealing them from my yard, the school bus stop or while shopping. But what I didn’t understand, was that drug addiction would be the one who kidnapped my child, 17 years later.

We discussed the dangers of drug and alcohol use in our home, especially since we had been personally affected, with the loss of my children’s uncle (my husband’s brother) from complications of alcoholism at the age of 35 and another uncle (my brother) from lung cancer at the age of 48, who was addicted to pain medication for a chronic health issue.

My husband and I never experimented with any “drugs” including marijuana, even though some of our friends did. It was a common occurrence to smell pot lingering in the air every day while riding on the school bus. To me, the smell of pot was nasty, and I would try and find the furthest seat away from the “potheads”, open the bus windows and hold my nose. Nothing about it made me want to try it, but my husband and I did however, drink alcohol before we were of legal age.

After discussing this with our children, I NEVER thought this would happen to them…I thought we were doing everything possible to raise happy, healthy children, mentally and physically. I was hoping we got it right.

I actually thought drug addiction happened to children who came from troubled homes; a stigma I now regret feeling and could not have been more wrong about. My son told us that he did not become curious about experimenting with any drug, marijuana, alcohol or pills, until he was EXPOSED to these drugs in his high school, when he entered the 9th grade, in 2004. Then his curiosity took over, and he began his experimental phase in 10th grade, which continued off and on without us knowing.

Drug experimentation soon turned into compulsive drug use, changing his brain function and impairing his ability to think clearly. And although it was his choice to experiment with drugs initially, the physical and psychological need replaced that choice, when he became addicted while living on campus during his first year of college.

My son informed us that many of his high school friends, college friends and teammates, who were also “good kids”, experimented with some of the same drugs that he did. Some of them are living a normal life today and DID NOT become addicts, but MY son, was one of the ones that became an addict.

He hid the signs of addiction well in the beginning, even while he was the starting goaltender, as a freshman for his college hockey team in 2008. In March 2010, his team went to Nationals and us, as his parents, who hardly ever missed hockey games let alone Nationals, couldn’t go with him due to my brother’s terminal illness. Ryan did not get to play at Nationals, which was odd, and we were later told that it was because he was “sick” (in reality, he was dopesick).

When my son would come home during college breaks, we would sit together and watch television programs late into the evening hours. I recall watching a specific program called “Intervention”, which involved real life situations of families, affected by addiction. I thought this was another good way to communicate about drug and alcohol addiction to society, and I remember looking over at my son and feeling blessed that my children were safe and healthy. But little did I know, that my son, sitting right next to me, had already been snatched by the addiction epidemic.

It wasn’t until my son moved back home during his sophomore year of college and traveled to school to save money, that we noticed something wasn’t quite right. Ryan was always a very happy child, but we were beginning to notice that he was becoming more irritable at times and would have unpredictable short visits at family functions. He was hardly ever home due to school, work and hockey, but when he was home, he was frequently sleeping during the day or nodding off at odd times, which I attributed to teenage/college life behavior.

He began to surround himself with friends from college that we did not know, and we would have unfamiliar vehicles parked in our driveway. Although we assumed our son was attending his regular college classes during the week, we later found out, he was not.

Our beautiful, smart, talented, happy child was kidnapped and lost in the world of addiction. He had to do whatever it took to get money to support his OxyContin addiction habit. His work paychecks began supporting his addiction 100%, and eventually, he could no longer afford it, leaving him desperate.

Three months before we even knew that our son had a drug addiction problem, my husband had major knee surgery and was prescribed narcotics for the pain. Being the nurse that I am, I knew to put those narcotics in a safe, hidden area of my home.  And without our knowledge, my son was able to locate my husband’s pain medication and switch them with identical looking pills (which ended up being just Tylenol). My husband suffered needlessly, while my son continued to fuel his addiction habit.

No matter how dangerous, illegal or immoral it was, DRUGS owned my sons’ soul. He stole, he lied, he manipulated. Drugs turned him into something I could not recognize. He no longer looked like my son, talked like my son, or acted like my son. Someone else was living in the body of my beautiful child.

Drug deals were being tossed up through my son’s bedroom window at night, while the rest of the family was fast asleep. A local pawn shop in our hometown thrived on our son’s frequent visits, knowing that he had a drug addiction problem and proceeded to take whatever sentimental, valuable item my son had that day. Things that we can never get back. Family heirlooms from generations ago. The family coin collection-gone…A precious guitar owned by his great uncle-gone…A gold cross given to me by my brother on his death bed that was a family heirloom-gone…gone forever.

When Ryan did finally tell us that he had a drug addiction problem, we had no clue what to do, who to call, where to take him, or how to fix it. We felt helpless, hopeless and embarrassed.

We found out that our son had a drug problem when he came to us on December 23, 2010 - two days before our traditional Christmas dinner, held in our home with our family for the past 17 years. This was the day his LONG journey to recovery began.

We spent countless sleepless nights as parents. I was mentally and physically exhausted. I was going insane. I blamed myself and felt that I had failed as a parent. During this time, my husband and I experienced out of 68 possible emotions a person could experience at any given time, 38 emotions, all of which were negative ones, and sometimes all in one day. We experienced anger, anguish, annoyance, anxiety, depression, despair, disappointment, disgust, dread, embarrassment, fear, frustration, grief, guilt, hatred, horror, hostility, hurt, hysteria, jealousy, loneliness, misery, panic, pity, rage, regret, remorse, sadness, shame, shock, sorrow, suffering, terror and worry. This illness took over our lives…we were living in the trenches of HELL.

I can still remember being in a fog for days after we accepted the fact that our son had a drug problem. I remember being home alone one day, crying uncontrollably, sitting in our LazyBoy rocker that faced the hallway to our dining room. I could see the closet door that housed our large tall gun safe, which was where we kept my husband’s hunting guns and a few family valuables, including very old, collectible coins given to us by my husband’s uncle who had passed away 6 months earlier.

While sitting in this chair, looking towards the closet door, I literally felt my body get up out of that chair, slowly walking towards that closet door and opening it. I remember staring at that gun safe for a few seconds before I reached for the gun safe door.  My right hand slowly opened that cold metal door. This entire situation was occurring in very slow motion. Once I opened that door, I felt myself reach for the gun that was staring right back at me. Suddenly, my vision cleared, and I realized that I was still sitting in the recliner crying. I just experienced an out of body experience that scared me to death. I realized I was actually contemplating killing myself. I needed help.

It was critical that we, as parents of an addicted child, sought support for ourselves. Naranon is a family support group that offers hope and helps give strength to families impacted by addiction.

Parental instincts alone cannot help get you through this illness. You have to make decisions that feel so unnatural as a parent, when all you want to do is to fix your baby’s boo-boo and you can’t.

Right away we searched for a local Naranon support group, but to our disappointment, there was nothing available locally in our area at that time. We were desperate for help, and with a little research, we found the “No Longer Alone “support group, 45 minutes away from our home. Our recovery journey as parents started on Tuesday, January 18, 2011.

After a very long work day, we drove every Tuesday evening to attend our weekly meetings, and for us, this gave us time to reflect on what we learned that night and apply it to our always changing, weekly crisis occurring in our home. We always ended our evening having a late-night dinner at one of our favorite restaurants. This was our new “normal” routine. We rarely missed a meeting in 3 years.

I remember crying during the entire hour of our very first Naranon meeting and continued to cry off and on during many meetings that followed, realizing that there were no answers as to how to “fix” my son’s drug problem. I was devastated, but you eventually learn that you cannot control it.

Little by little, after attending regular weekly Naranon support group meetings, numerous counseling sessions at rehab with our son and seeing a personal therapist for myself, we learned a lot about addiction and began to heal ourselves.

My husband is my rock, my best friend. He is one of the most kind-hearted and caring human beings on this earth. He is a wonderful father to our children, and this situation took us both beyond the bottom of a bottomless pit. I needed professional help to get me through this, and while my husband was there to console me every single day of this living nightmare, he dealt with his own agonizing pain internally. My strong, reserved man, eventually let go and cried at a few of our frequent visits to rehab during our open counseling sessions with our son. It was gut wrenching to see him suffer too, and I didn’t have enough strength to comfort him, like he did for me.

We worked as a team and did what we needed to do, no matter how emotionally painful or inconvenient it was for us. We did it. And we did it together.

Our son refused to go to an inpatient facility initially, because he thought that he could beat his addiction problem after physically detoxing at an outpatient treatment center. He agreed to undergo the outpatient treatment because he wanted to go back to college to finish his degree.

But the intense psychological cravings took control of his body and mind, and he relapsed shortly after detox, which led him to his first inpatient admission.

He was discharged 2 weeks later because that was all that my insurance company would cover, so Ryan attended a daily outpatient treatment program, enabling him to continue working at his part-time job.  But his college education had to be put on hold for now. Ryan lasted 4 weeks, failing 4 urine drug tests, and was dismissed from the program.

We were told by his doctors that Ryan’s recovery success would increase the LONGER he sought treatment. Even though the time it takes to physically detox from drug use is fairly short, the psychological aspect of addiction takes much more time to treat. To each recovering addict, the road to recovery is a journey, and for some, this journey can take time, even many years.

We were afraid that our son was going to get arrested or die, so we hired a private interventionist. We already had a bed reserved at a rehab in Ohio, and we had his bags packed and ready to go. The goal was to do the intervention and take him straight to rehab.

At the time, my son worked for his uncle in a cement business, so we planned on doing the intervention the day Ryan was to pick up his paycheck. Myself, my husband, Ryan’s brother and sister, his two maternal aunts and uncle, a cousin and his maternal grandmother were waiting for him in the private meeting room.

Remembering that we used to watch the TV “Intervention” programs together, my son knew exactly what was up when he opened that door. Instant panic, pacing, anger and resistance.

Obviously, my son was waiting for his paycheck so that he could get his drugs, and he knew that if he didn’t get them soon, he would become dopesick. He finally sat down, fidgeting in his chair, listening from a far away place to our pleas to go to rehab, but none of it was sinking in. All he wanted was his paycheck and leaving. A car was already outside waiting for him to get his dope money, so that he could get his fix.

Ryan’s uncle, who was his boss at the time, had given his check to my husband prior to the meeting. Ryan insisted that we give him his paycheck, or he would call the police. My husband took Ryan’s check and ripped it up into many pieces in front of everyone. The look on Ryan’s face was shock and instant panic. He dialed 911.

When the cop arrived, assessed the situation and learned what we were doing, he proceeded to tell my husband that it is against the law to withhold his check and that the business would have to re-issue another check that day. It was a Friday evening and business hours were closed. There was no way of printing another check until Monday. So, the cop told Ryan that he could arrest his father if he wanted to, or he could wait until Monday to get his check. Ryan couldn’t follow through with having his father arrested, but the torment he was going through was something no parent should ever have to see.

After 5 mentally exhausting hours of begging, Ryan finally agreed to go back to rehab, but under one condition. Since the interventionist was going to drive Ryan to a rehab facility in Ohio, which was a 3.5-hour drive, Ryan wanted $300 and a car so that he would be able to get his drugs, because he did not want to withdraw on the way to rehab.  He promised to be home in 1 hour and would go back to rehab.

With much reluctance and fear, we agreed, but he would have to sign over his paycheck when it was re-issued, to reimburse us for his last high. Ryan kept his promise and arrived back at our house, drugged out of his mind. It sickened me, because I never really witnessed him actually on a full blown “high” before, but he was fortunately on his way to his 2nd attempt at an inpatient facility, and this was the first time my husband and I had a good night’s sleep in months.

The usual scenario during a rehab stay: addict arrives to their detoxing unit for the first 5-7 days or so, their phone is taken away and locked up during their entire stay, and they are transferred to another unit where they usually have a roommate and begin their group counseling sessions as well as private sessions with their own personal counselor.

We were able to see our son once a week on Family Day, which was every Sunday. We got to spend some private time with our son in his room or outside, which included lunch in the cafeteria. Then, the parents were separated from their children for a few hours to have a learning-about-addiction session taught by the counselors.

The day would end with a group counseling session that included as many as 6-8 other family members whose loved ones were also suffering from addiction and we would sit in a circle. This hour is called the “smackdown”.  This is when each family member would take a turn in front of everyone, with a counselors’ guidance, opening up about their loved one’s addiction and what it had done to the family dynamics. It gets very emotional. A lot of frustration, sadness, anger and many tears are shed during this time.

Our first visit with Ryan in rehab was on a Sunday, 6 days following his intervention. My husband was unable to attend this visit due to a work conference out of town. So, myself and my 2 other children packed up very early in the morning and drove the 3.5 hours to visit Ryan.

I had Ryan’s work paycheck with me, which was re-issued after my husband ripped up the initial check during the intervention. We agreed upon a plan prior to rehab.  Ryan was to sign the check, I would take it home with me and cash it to reimburse ourselves for the money we gave him to get his drugs prior to rehab….but it didn’t work out that way.

In the early morning hours after we arrived, we had some private time with Ryan and spent it outside. I was initially anxious and nervous and so was he. As soon as I handed him the check to sign, he took it, put it in his pocket and refused to give it back. I was instantly sickened by the stunt he just pulled. I felt angry, hot and sweaty. I wanted to literally choke my son. I hated him! I became loud and started to raise my voice. People were starting to look at us. I tried to remain calm, but it wasn’t working. I just drove 3.5 hours to visit him; how dare he go back on that prior promise. He was much calmer than I was, insistent on telling me that it was his paycheck and he needed it for when he left rehab. At that very moment, I knew he wasn’t serious about recovery. I began to cry hysterically and wanted to go home; but we just got there, and I was too frazzled to drive.

I went back inside to tell his counselor Suzie, that I was leaving and couldn’t stay for the group family session. I was visibly shaken. She was calm, reassuring and wonderful and I am very grateful for her dedication in helping our family through this painful process. She talked us into staying until the end of the day, but I was not happy. I was a mess. I needed my husband. For the first time, I felt like giving up on my son, but something inside of me kept me going.

Eventually, my daughter had to drive part way home until I could calm down enough to get behind the wheel. I couldn’t wait until Tuesday for my next Naranon meeting and for Wednesday, to have my personal therapy session before we had to go back and visit Ryan the following Sunday. I was very angry, hurt and betrayed, and I really needed emotional help to get me through the week.

Unfortunately, Sunday never came. My son signed himself out of rehab the day after he got his check. His girlfriend at the time came to Ohio and took him back to Pennsylvania. Why was this happening? Why wouldn’t my son take this opportunity to get better?

His lifestyle was affecting our safety, our happiness, our lives. I had 2 other children being exposed to things that they should never have been exposed to. I was sleeping with my purse and the only jewelry that I had left: the cross on my neck and my wedding rings, which I never ever removed.

It took me 6 long, agonizing months before I could build up enough courage to give my son 2 choices: either go to back to rehab again and do what they recommend OR move out of our home.

My son chose to live on the streets, house to house, drug deal to drug deal, no money, no car, no food, no clothes, no daily hugs. Just he and his drugs…but this was HIS choice and HIS addiction was winning this war!

We even offered to take him to a homeless shelter, but he refused.

This was one of the hardest experiences that we ever had to deal with as a parent, knowing that he chose that lifestyle over what he once had - a loving home, playing a sport that he loved, and a college education. But we eventually understood, that we, as his parents, were doing what was necessary, to give our son the BEST chance of survival.

Even though we knew that he could have died on the streets, many parents find their children dead from an overdose while living at home. I had to finally leave it in God’s hands.

The agonizing pain and heartache you feel, watching your child walk up the lonely country road with his suitcase, not knowing what will happen next. I don’t wish that feeling on anyone.

And to those people who judged me, calling me a “bad mother” for letting my son live on the streets, I totally understand where you’re coming from; but until you live through this horrible nightmare, it is impossible to understand what we as parents of addicts have to do to help save our children. I planned his funeral several times. I was mourning the loss of my son, and he was still alive.

After living 3 long months on the streets and having limited contact with us, I would find him asleep on our hammock on mornings I would leave for work. It was heartbreaking to have to tell him he couldn’t stay. I offered to take him back to rehab at any time, but he had to stop hiding outside our home. Finally, he did surrender to recovery again. This would be his 3rd attempt at an inpatient facility.

After completing his 30-day rehab treatment this time, Ryan agreed to live in a three-quarter way recovery house in Ohio, which was affiliated with his rehab center, for further treatment after discharge. This is a safe living environment with other recovering addicts, and we FINALLY saw positive results.

After living without drugs for 5 months in this structured recovery house, it was time for Ryan to move forward, get a job and live on his own. We transferred our high mileage, older vehicle to his name, so that he could have something to drive to work.

BUT, within a 4-month time span, during a one-time visit to a friend’s house, our son chose to browse through the medicine cabinets while using their bathroom and came across a narcotic prescription.

This was the beginning of yet another relapse, and this time we learned it was to intravenous heroin, totally unaware of all of the other drugs our son was now experimenting with. Without our knowledge, he had someone take him to rehab, but this visit only lasted a week - relapsing the very day he was discharged. His car was repossessed.

By now, Ryan knew that he needed to go back to rehab again and admitted himself for the 5th time. Another 30-day stay. A different recovery house afterwards, because the one that he was in prior did not have any immediate openings. This one was less structured, and he relapsed within 3 months.

Rehab visit #6. A 30-day stay again. We decreased our visits to rehab this time. It was mentally and physically exhausting. Ryan knew the routine and the process afterwards. He made arrangements to live in a house with a couple of recovering addicts, but there were no specific rules except to stay clean.

Ryan found odd jobs to get back on his feet. He had a girlfriend who was also in recovery, but within a few months, his last relapse became his worst. This time a crime was committed and caught on tape, meaning jail time. We were starting to get used to the relapse phone calls and when we heard about this last relapse, we knew he was so into the darkness of hell that we were unsure if he would ever make it out. But we never gave up on him.

We drove to Ohio to take him to his 7h rehab admission, hoping it would be his last. He was planning on turning himself in after he completed his 30-day stay. He was suicidal and desperately needed help.

When Ryan called the rehab, there were no beds available until the next morning, so we stayed in a hotel close to the rehab facility. That was the longest day of my life - stuck in a room with a child who had to use the bathroom every hour to self-medicate so that he wouldn’t go through withdrawal. Every time he closed that door, I prayed that he would not overdose. I felt so helpless, but calm. I had to maintain self-control so that I could help him get through this immediate danger. I was searching for that beautiful, sweet, fun-loving baby boy I once knew, but couldn’t find him…

We survived the night and were able to get him to a rehab safely, hoping this would be the time that he finally gets it. We felt if he couldn’t make it this time, he wouldn’t survive the outside world.

Something was different this time. Ryan appeared to embrace rehab without hesitation, even though he had the rehab routine memorized by now. He did not try to rush his recovery time spent in rehab, but could it be because he knew he was going to have to go to jail when released? I was trying to be optimistic, but it was hard since my hopes were shattered over and over again so many other times.

When we visited rehab for “Family Day” on Sundays this time, my son was looking and feeling better. Even though he knew he would be turning himself in, he accepted whatever sentence he would be given. He never ever tried to get away with his crime. I was starting to be hopeful again. Even though the thought of my son sitting in jail was scary, we all had to accept it and focus on continued recovery when he was released.

I vividly recall the very last family session we had with our son. I was focusing on the other parents who were new to this journey. This would be our 7th admission and I felt like a veteran. Although their pathway to drug addiction may have been different than ours, once addicted, the stories were ALL the same. The heartache and the pain, the same…the struggles and the sadness, the same…

There were 2 boys and their mothers that will be in my mind forever. The first boy was Bobby, who was revived by his mother from an overdose in her home. He was just 19 years old and already a father himself. I recall his mother crying and crying and begging for him to get better. That experience of reviving her son was too much for her to handle. While she was sharing her story, her son listened, but was in another world. It was like looking at my son Ryan several rehabs ago, just going through the motions. I didn’t have a good feeling upon his exit from rehab. All I could do was pray and to this day, I do not know what happened to Bobby.

The other family was a mother and her beautiful son Aaron. I was drawn to his shy personality. I felt like I wanted to just take him home with me and never leave my house. This was not his first time in rehab, and his mother could no longer afford treatment for him after this visit. His father had issues with heroin for many years and was divorced from his mother. His father later died from a heroin overdose. I felt really bad for this family; even though I was dealing with the same issues with my own son, I became attached to these children emotionally. It felt like they were my sons too.

Aaron was going to go to the same structured recovery house that my son went to after he completed rehab. I was so happy to hear that. I knew this was going to be a good next step for him. After a few months passed, I heard that he went to his sister’s wedding, overdosed and died. I was heartbroken. When will this madness end?

I would like to share, with my son’s permission, segments of a family letter that Ryan wrote to us after his 7th rehab admission:

Dear Mom, Dad, Shelby & Jacob,

I am writing this letter to try and help you understand in some small way, the workings of the mind of your drug addicted son and brother. Why I am the way I am & why I keep destroying my life over and over again.

I am sure you all in your daily lives make rational, smart, thoughtful, calculated decisions.  I don’t know what that is like.

Since I made bad decisions as a teenager to pick up drugs to experience the greatest feeling the human mind is capable of, I have been forever changed.

Drug addiction is evil and it has already made me do things I would never normally do.  It has turned me into a version of myself, I am not proud of.

I have crossed a boundary that no human should ever cross.

Since we can never know what the future holds and because of how I have already traveled down into the darkness, the possibility is always there, that it could one day take my life and if that ever happens, do not be sad, but rejoice knowing that my torment would be over.

I do not want you for one second to ever blame yourself or think there was anyway to have stopped my addiction.

An evil force had grabbed me when I had first tried opiates and it has taken a hold of me for life.

No matter what happens, I want you to know, that no child could have ever had a better, more loving, caring, amazing family then myself.

I truly am a good person and even when I do wrong, I feel the guilt and letting you all down.  You have instilled in me the value and morals of what a man should be, even if I fall short sometimes, you have always been there for me and I thank you for that.

I am battling a terrible addiction and it has drained me physically and mentally, but I am going to give recovery everything I got and I hope to someday live up to the expectations of what you all know I can be and hopefully one day I can be someone your proud to call your son and big brother.

Thank you for supporting me in the battle of my life to get my life back and I appreciate you all, more then you will ever know……….

With much much love,

Your son and brother,

Ryan

Ryan lived in another wonderful three-quarter recovery house after his last rehab visit.  Joe, the owner of this recovery house, was always there for my son, and we are forever grateful for his guidance and support while he was living there.

During this time, my son had a full-time job in a warehouse and had 1-year “clean” under his belt. This was the first time that he had ever reached the 1-year mark. Although grateful for his sobriety, it took this long for his several scheduled hearings and sentencing to be finalized following turning himself in.

I remember being at my regular yearly physical, waiting for the doctor to come in the room, when I got a collect call from my son. As soon as I heard his voice, I knew. I knew he didn’t get probation, which is what we all hoped for, but was sentenced to 6 months in jail instead. I instantly started to panic and cry. Even though we all knew this was a possibility, we were still hoping that since this was his first offense and he was doing so well with his recovery, he would be given probation; but we were also prepared for the worst-case scenario.

I was worried about Ryan maintaining his sobriety in jail. This was another painful journey for our family. Having to visit our son behind a thick glass wall. Unable to touch or hug him, dressed in an orange jumpsuit. Talking to him through a phone-like object, where others could hear your conversation, and all you had was 30 minutes to spend with your child. All I could do was pray that my son would be able to stay strong mentally, and he did. He did what he needed to do to move forward.

We finally saw enough change in our son this time around that we were beginning to believe that he really could make it out of this deep dark hole. He can and will recover from this. My beautiful boy is back. His smile, his laughter, his passion for life is back.

I remember the beginning of one of our Naranon meetings when we first started attending and the leader asking us, on a scale of 1-10, how we felt that day. Of course, 10 was “wonderful” and “1” was “miserable”.  Then it was my turn to give a number, I recall thinking how can anyone be anything more than a 1, let alone a 10!  I think I said a “-10”, exclaiming that I could never, ever be a happy person again.

But we repeated that exercise 1-year later and guess what, I recall being happy again and saying “8” this time. And we were still dealing with some rough times!

People have asked me, if I could go back in time and change anything, what would that be? Without a doubt, I would NOT have changed anything ABOUT my son, or any of his life experiences…BUT I should have never assumed that my children would know better or expected them to just say “NO”. I thought they knew enough about the dangers of drug use, when in reality, I was the one who didn’t know enough. I didn’t know that 90% of prescription drug addictions start in the teenage years.

I did not grow up wanting to become a parent of an addict, and my son did not grow up wanting to become one. I cannot go back and change the past for my son and our family, but I can take our experience, learn from it and educate other families about the dangers of drug addiction.

Eventually, I felt I needed to do something to help prevent others from going through this horrible pain that we experienced as a family. I felt the best way to do that was through prevention education in our community called the “Reality Tour”, educating parents and children from our school district about the deadly dangers of drug addiction by telling our story.

My experience, although mostly painful, has made me a better wife, mother, nurse and friend. I now understand the depth of what compassion should feel like. I met so many truly amazing people along the way and wouldn’t trade that experience for anything.

Although there is no cure for addiction, there is good news - addiction is treatable and recovery is attainable. But the path to get there isn’t always an easy one. The stigma associated with addiction prevents many from seeking help out of fear, shame or embarrassment, the risk of losing their jobs or education, and of course, the disgrace of being labeled a “drug addict” or a “junkie”. Instead, many will try to fight this illness on their own with good intentions, but without the proper help and guidance, relapse is almost always a given.

Ryan is currently working very hard to overcome the physical, mental, legal and financial hardships that were caused by his addiction problem. It has not been nor will it be easy any time soon.

Remember to always love your children through the worst and best of times. I celebrate today the wisdom and courage that my son gained from this experience. I applaud his efforts to write this book on addiction and how we got to this point in our country. You may not agree with his viewpoints, but his experiences with addiction are REAL, RAW and HONEST. And I am very proud to call him my son.
