To Die in July

Chapter 1

He thought he would feel a lot different than he actually did. “This world should seem different after you make peace with leaving it.” James thought to himself as he reached for his crumbled pack of cigarettes. Fingering around for one of his last remaining smokes as he sat on the sidewalk outside of the convenience store he frequented.

James Mason was in his late thirties. He was homeless for what seemed like an eternity when in actuality it has been about 6 years. A tall man with a slim lanky build. Skin tan and dry, the consistency of a worn leathery shoe from all the days spent out in the warm Ohio sun.  His hair was not long but it definitely was not short either, just matted and tangled from days of dried sweat. An attempt at covering it with a dirty camouflage hat with a curved bill did no justice and only added to the overall look of despair that he wore so noticeably. A patchwork short “beard” reflected a need to shave or at least a trim.

Not a dumb man by any means, James was a 2-tour veteran of Operation Iraqi Freedom. Those days in the desert may have been brutal and traumatizing but life was simpler then. Someone told you what to do and you did it. Not like now where it was only James calling the shots and he just couldn’t get out of his own way.

A backpack carried everything in this world that he could call his. An extra pair of faded blue jeans that were too loose on him to look presentable and two back up semi tattered t-shirts composed his wardrobe. He was also currently wearing a pair of newer blue track pants that he had shoplifted from a nicer store in the mall. Although they bore a trademark ink stain from where he had pried off the anti-theft dye pack on the left thigh. He also had on a NASCAR tee although he could care less about the races. Finally, although it was 83 degrees out he had his thick green coat on. Causing more looks of disgust than sympathy from those who passed in and out of the corner store. The looks on their faces reflected a hope that he would not ask them for a dollar.

As he lit one of his last cigarettes he pondered what last night actually meant. His life had the ever so apparent tinge of one that was finished. There was no conceivable next chapter and the constant feeling of a life winding down ate at him constantly. He had a wife once, what felt like a lifetime ago. Amanda was her name and she was beautiful. Long brown hair with a full curvaceous figure but very much a gorgeous woman. He loved her then and he still loved her now but having any kind of relationship with her or their 8-year-old daughter seemed every bit the fantasy. It had been almost 4 months since he had seen her and even then, it was only the locking of eyes as she drove by probably on her way to work. She might as well be a stranger at this point. James was on his own.

Last night was hard to process. He had made the choice to end his life. He was sure he was committed to carrying it out but now thinking back he was not so sure. The weather was nice enough in July at night where sleeping at his usual clearing in the woods was semi-comfortable. He laid on the old sleeping bag the night before ready to close his eyes one final time.  He had ten Percocet and two Xanax for his last meal and a fifth of very cheap gas station vodka to wash it down. He loved drugs and drinking, he loved anything really that beat back the ever-persistent depression but was too poor to ever develop anything close to physical addiction. His tolerance was low, and this combination of downers should have allowed him to finally shed his earthly body. Eating the Percocet and snorting a large line of Xanax he forced down as much of the rail vodka as he could. He had laid there for a time, how long it was not clear. The pleasant haze that enveloped him did not allow for an accurate gauging of time. He slowly began to drift in and out of consciousness fully content with slipping out of this life that had somewhere gone so horribly wrong.

Waking up the next morning was odd and surprising, or maybe it wasn’t. A part of James almost knew he would live to see another sunrise. Yet he took the steps to not wake up. Still very much under the influence he fumbled with the yellowed small plastic baggy that held his pills and he tried to make sense of what he saw. There were still 2 Percocet and a Xanax in the bag. He reached for the bottle of vodka and it was little more than half gone. “Why would I save anything unless I knew I would be alive to take them later” he pondered under the brightening sunlight. He was ready to die, he was at peace with taking his final sleep and yet here he was. Maybe he was not as ready as he thought he was. Maybe there was something deep inside that was still faintly holding on.

Grappling with what had happened last night and this morning was a task. It was as if he was trying to decipher the actions of two completely different people. It was midday now and the work for today had to still be done. James was hungry and a little more depressed than usual. The kind of depression that follows a night of numbing yourself. The relief and good feelings that the drugs the night before had brought on needed to be paid back in the currency of misery. It was a thought that had always stuck with James since his time in the Infantry. Whatever good a drink or drug brings must at some point eventually be paid back in equally negative terms.

The desire to get up off that sidewalk and try and function did not exist, but the routine of everyday life was by now so heavily engrained into James that his body carried out the task that his mind would not acknowledge needed doing. In his pocket were five crumpled one-dollar bills. “Money may not buy happiness, but it does buy life. Last night it almost bought death” James mumbled to himself accompanied with a smirk at what he thought was a very deep and astute thought from a man so totally broken.

As he went to walk into the store his sluggish walk seemed to portray everything you needed to know about the man. Labored and out of rhythm his stride came across to the observer as a man completely incapable of normal daily functioning.  Although the aftermath of intense drug use the night prior had more to play in that than any kind of physical handicap.

“The shop” as the neighborhood affectionately called it, was a small gas station/convenience store all too common in lower income areas. The shelves were not quite bare, but they were not well stocked either. Three aisles of all the assortments needed to be a poor man’s one stop shop. “Mornin Fareed” Jim said with a weaker voice than usual.

“Jim, yes, hi. It not morning though. Nearly five o clock.” He replied with a playful tone.

Fareed and his wife Natalia have owned the store for the last ten plus years.  A middle aged middle eastern couple who were incredibly kind and courteous to whoever came in the place of business, no matter how difficult some customers could be.

James browsed over the drinks for a lengthy period of time even though he and Fareed both knew he would end up picking the same beverage he always does.  He finally opened the foggy glass door to grab one tall twenty-four-ounce beer. He set it on the counter avoiding eye contact by pretending to check out the candy on the shelf.  “How many loosey?” Fareed inquired, referring to the individual loose cigarettes James always bought. Only special occasions warranted buying a full pack. “Let me get four.” He responded while pulling out his old worn pack he kept from the last time he purchased a complete set.

“Two fifty”

“Here then let me get an oatmeal crème pie to make it an even three”

“You have nice day, stay dry. Rain be on the way the paper says.” Fareed said while bagging James’s things and sliding an extra cigarette in while James glanced over at the newspapers.

Walking back out into the brightness was jarring and James imagined that if he were rich he would probably put on an expensive pair of sunglasses right now. He would probably be walking to his high-end car to fill it up with gas.  He would probably be on his way home from work to eat supper with his family. His wife would probably kiss him and ask him about his day. His daughter would probably come in for her hug and look forward to playing with daddy after dessert. He would probably watch the news and look forward to the weekend when he could play golf with a bunch of his friends who he had known since high school.

That world did not exist for him though and no matter how bad he wished it did he knew it never would. It simply was not attainable in any stretch of the imagination. When you have been down so long you become less and less likely to be able to get back up. He began the nearly half an hour walk to the intersection where he has the most luck panhandling at. If his luck holds out and he has a decent day he should make enough money to unwind at his favorite bar at night. For now, though all he has is this walk and his mind to continue to pummel him with nagging thoughts of what could have been. Could have been dead last night. Could have had a life worth living. Could have a reason to live. Could have……….could have.