The bio says “now a book.”
That “now” is doing too much work.
I am still creating the final chapters in real time as i live them. I still roof. I still go to class. I still battle with addiction. But the last part of the book requires my sobriety. The war within myself, is the war to finish this book and save my life before I finally lose this 6 year war and die. In that case the ending part will be compiled by the person that ends up reading the instructions that I penned already to leave behind.  The massive archive i have amassed these past 6 brutal years is as diverse as it is  raw.
     A leaking fountain pen that bled multiple goodbye letters to friends and family. Through the camera lens of a shitty revvl7 is preserved the 3 hour solo car ride to rehab as a white out blizzard tests my crack, fentanyl, gabapentin, phenibut, and alcohol bombarded brain. The multi-color glow of a microphone tip that consumed the revelations in physics and quantum mechanics that became unlocked on the 4th day awake. The clack of computer keys forming words 10,000 times uniterrupted and unedited on a late august night in 2024 compiled as the author weathered the storm of 4 different chemicals. The preserved digital screen of an ipad at the soul shattering moment the ignition was lit on supercharging the spiral. The tapping of a prized Underwood typewriter from 1928 transforms the tears shed from the pain felt as the author recounts that afternoons trip to sell a prized first edition copy of Ernest Hemingway's masterpiece "For Whom The Bell Tolls". Or the 5 different lenses on an S23 Ultra and the two lenses of long pawned pair of RayBan Meta sunglasses that capture what a 17k dollar cash deposit manifests in a drowning life semester after semester. A webcam preserves the explainations of what the eyes belonging to someone in crack induced psychosis sees in the night sky through a BLINK camera constantly recording the night sky. 
          The old writing, the 1.9 tb of videos, the hours of spoken words, the logs of financial ruin do not convey a man who got his life together. They dont portray a person that should be able to spend 60 hours a week on a roof. They dont show a man in his 30s that is likely to make the deans list in a top tier securty and intelligence masters program. The subject of this archive couldnt possibly tend to 5 beehives or buy a home. The unraveling of this human mind as it tries to coordinate a new scenario daily where roughly 400 dollars must materialize to keep the ship afloat, yet he does.  
 I wrote this while the days were happening. Some of it is ugly. Some euphoric. Too much of it is sad. Chunks are surprisingly complex, insightful, scientific, analytical, thought provoking, and mind bending. 
                      But ALL of it is fuckin REAL.
 
         IM HIGH ON CRACK AND I HAVE A GUN 
is the title because that is what the years became. The title embodies the energy, frequency and vibrations of the project, INTENSE. 
               The documentary will finally portray the reality of addiction as it truly is from the inside, while its happening. Through the eyes of someone knowingly speeding to his own demise while being able to analyze and realize what hes doing, yet still not being able to stop. Its not addiction recalled and recited into a podcast microphone once the storm has passed. Its addiction as it is during the chaotic, irrational, illogical, calculating, scheming moment. Its the torture felt and explained in real time. Its the thoughts during the moments the self destructive choices happen. Its the unmasking of the characters we all have to play. 
      Its how you finally can understand what its like for the person YOU love that keeps making the wrong self destructive decisions over and over again. Its what its like to finally walk in their shoes. To comprehend the mental battle their waging. Its how to untangle the process of the self inflicted implosion. Its the way you finally comprehend the incomprehensible.
                             It is what it is. 
                  The brutal reality of active addiction.
 
             The book is what will alter your perception of the world around you. That's a guarentee, you wont have a choice. The mental contradiction of what is presented on a page delivered by some crackhead and what It will challenge you with will force you to confront alot of things about the world aroud you. Reading the words as you travel along the path with a mind as it changes. Observing the change  of a persons mental state each chapter. Reading the words of a brain as it spirals, stabilizes, comprimises, uravels, rationalizes, anesthetizes, and prepares for the personal D-Day  that has to be fought to get to the road that leads the flourishing of the breathtakingly powerful potential that one always knew was there, somewhere.
                            Now the real question is, what will you end up reading after that part? Will you read the final chapters crafted and created by a consciousness that fought that personal invasion of normady we all fight at one point or another in life? Or do you continue with the composition of a capable, talented, and likely grief striken individual trying their best to carry out the tragic instructions left by the pen of new freshman ghost?
             The answer to that part of the journey is unfolding right here, on a discord server, my website, and , on the youtube officially.
           Mini Doc 1, “The Ride to Die,” is the first lill film you can watch. "Psychosis Loops" is the song for mini doc 2, its already out(search IHOCAIHAG on all music streaming platforms. Mini Doc 2 is the cut with the same name. It the evolution of what active psychosis looks, and thinks like.
If you need the story to end with me cured, happy, healthy, sunshine and roses, you are reading a different project. If you want the record, start with the film and argue with what is actually in it. Then hit the discord and join the collaboration of whats becoming a long unseen, unheard, community of people that are starting to build a modern version of what a recovery collective could be if it wasnt stuck being based in the medical and scientific knowledge of the 1930s. Come shape what will eventually become MRA. The Modern Recovery Alliance. It will become what we want and need it to become.
                 Im sick of typing tonight. Fuck you, ill be in the clouds if you need me.
-Ryan Homanics
imhighoncrackandihaveagun.com


